Azure private link (#5929)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/cloud/secure/snowflake-privatelink.md

- [Snowflake SSO with Private Connectivity](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/admin-security-fed-auth-overview#label-sso-private-connectivity)
:::

## About private connectivity for Snowflake

dbt Cloud supports private connectivity for Snowflake using one of the following services:

- AWS [PrivateLink](#configure-aws-privatelink)
- Azure [Private Link](#configure-azure-private-link)

## Configure AWS PrivateLink

To configure Snowflake instances hosted on AWS for [PrivateLink](https://aws.amazon.com/privatelink):

1. Open a Support case with Snowflake to allow access from the dbt Cloud AWS or Entra ID account.
- Snowflake prefers that the account owner opens the Support case directly, rather than dbt Labs acting on their behalf. For more information, refer to [Snowflake's knowledge base article](https://community.snowflake.com/s/article/HowtosetupPrivatelinktoSnowflakefromCloudServiceVendors).
- Provide them with your dbt Cloud account ID along with any other information requested in the article.

>   - **AWS account ID**: `346425330055` &mdash; _NOTE: This account ID only applies to AWS dbt Cloud multi-tenant environments. For AWS Virtual Private/Single-Tenant account IDs please contact [Support](https://docs.getdbt.com/community/resources/getting-help#dbt-cloud-support)._

Reviewer: missing comma

```suggestion
  - **AWS account ID**: `346425330055` &mdash; _NOTE: This account ID only applies to AWS dbt Cloud multi-tenant environments. For AWS Virtual Private/Single-Tenant account IDs, please contact [Support](https://docs.getdbt.com/community/resources/getting-help#dbt-cloud-support)._
```

>   - **AWS account ID**: `346425330055` &mdash; _NOTE: This account ID only applies to AWS dbt Cloud multi-tenant environments. For AWS Virtual Private/Single-Tenant account IDs, please contact [Support](https://docs.getdbt.com/community/resources/getting-help#dbt-cloud-support)._

Author: ```suggestion
  - **AWS account ID**: `346425330055` &mdash; _NOTE: This account ID only applies to AWS dbt Cloud multi-tenant environments. For AWS Virtual Private/Single-Tenant account IDs, please contact [Support](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-support#dbt-cloud-support)._
```

- [Snowflake SSO with Private Connectivity](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/admin-security-fed-auth-overview#label-sso-private-connectivity)
:::

## About private connectivity for Snowflake

dbt Cloud supports private connectivity for Snowflake using one of the following services:

- AWS [PrivateLink](#configure-aws-privatelink)
- Azure [Private Link](#configure-azure-private-link)

## Configure AWS PrivateLink

To configure Snowflake instances hosted on AWS for [PrivateLink](https://aws.amazon.com/privatelink):

> 1. Open a Support case with Snowflake to allow access from the dbt Cloud AWS or Entra ID account.

Reviewer: sugg for consistency on page: this instance is not referring to the "Support team", just a support ticket

```suggestion
1. Open a support case with Snowflake to allow access from the dbt Cloud AWS or Entra ID account.
```

> - Snowflake prefers that the account owner opens the Support case directly, rather than dbt Labs acting on their behalf. For more information, refer to [Snowflake's knowledge base article](https://community.snowflake.com/s/article/HowtosetupPrivatelinktoSnowflakefromCloudServiceVendors).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Snowflake prefers that the account owner opens the support case directly rather than dbt Labs acting on their behalf. For more information, refer to [Snowflake's knowledge base article](https://community.snowflake.com/s/article/HowtosetupPrivatelinktoSnowflakefromCloudServiceVendors).
```

Author: It's not a recommendation really, it's their stipulation on who they'll deal with. Going to leave this as it was but with the other suggestion

- Provide them with your dbt Cloud account ID along with any other information requested in the article.
  - **AWS account ID**: `346425330055` &mdash; _NOTE: This account ID only applies to AWS dbt Cloud multi-tenant environments. For AWS Virtual Private/Single-Tenant account IDs, please contact [Support](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-support#dbt-cloud-support)._
- You will need to have `ACCOUNTADMIN` access to the Snowflake instance to submit a Support request.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/snowflakeprivatelink1.png" title="Open snowflake case"/>

2. After Snowflake has granted the requested access, run the Snowflake system function [SYSTEM$GET_PRIVATELINK_CONFIG](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/functions/system_get_privatelink_config.html) and copy the output.

> 3. Add the required information to the template below, and submit your request to  [dbt Support](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-support#dbt-cloud-support):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add the required information to the following template and submit your request to  [dbt Support](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-support#dbt-cloud-support):
```

## Configure PrivateLink

1. Open a Support case with Snowflake to allow access from the dbt Cloud AWS or Entra ID account.
- Snowflake prefers that the account owner opens the Support case directly, rather than dbt Labs acting on their behalf. For more information, refer to [Snowflake's knowledge base article](https://community.snowflake.com/s/article/HowtosetupPrivatelinktoSnowflakefromCloudServiceVendors).
- Provide them with your dbt Cloud account ID along with any other information requested in the article.

>   - **AWS account ID**: `346425330055` &mdash; _NOTE: This account ID only applies to AWS dbt Cloud multi-tenant environments. For AWS Virtual Private/Single-Tenant account IDs please contact [Support](https://docs.getdbt.com/community/resources/getting-help#dbt-cloud-support)._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **AWS account ID**: `346425330055` &mdash; _NOTE: This account ID only applies to AWS dbt Cloud multi-tenant environments. For AWS Virtual Private/Single-Tenant account IDs, please contact [support](https://docs.getdbt.com/community/resources/getting-help#dbt-cloud-support)._
```

Author: Same as other feedback.

>   - Azure private endpoint resource ID: Please contact [Support](https://docs.getdbt.com/community/resources/getting-help#dbt-cloud-support).

Author: ```suggestion
  - **Azure private endpoint resource ID**: Please contact [Support](https://docs.getdbt.com/community/resources/getting-help#dbt-cloud-support).
```

>   - **Azure private endpoint resource ID**: Please contact [Support](https://docs.getdbt.com/community/resources/getting-help#dbt-cloud-support).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Azure private endpoint resource ID**: Please contact [support](https://docs.getdbt.com/community/resources/getting-help#dbt-cloud-support) for this ID.
```

> 3. Add the required information to the template below, and submit your request to  [dbt Support](https://docs.getdbt.com/community/resources/getting-help#dbt-cloud-support):

Author: ```suggestion
3. Add the required information to the template below, and submit your request to  [dbt Support](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-support#dbt-cloud-support):
```

<PrivateLinkSLA />

## Configure Azure Private Link

To configure Snowflake instances hosted on Azure for [Private Link](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/private-link/private-link-overview):

> 1. In your Snowflake account, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In your Snowflake account, run the following SQL statements and copy the output: 
```

```sql

USE ROLE ACCOUNTADMIN;
SYSTEM$GET_PRIVATELINK_CONFIG;

```

> Copy the output

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 2. Contact [dbt Labs Support](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-support#dbt-cloud-support) and provide the following information: 

Reviewer: sugg for consistency and parallel construction

```suggestion
2. Add the required information to the following template and submit your request to  [dbt Support](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-support#dbt-cloud-support): 
```

> 2. Contact [dbt Labs Support](https://docs.getdbt.com/community/resources/getting-help#dbt-cloud-support) and provide the following information: 

Author: ```suggestion
2. Contact [dbt Labs Support](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-support#dbt-cloud-support) and provide the following information: 
```

```
Subject: New Multi-Tenant (Azure or AWS) PrivateLink Request
- Type: Snowflake

> - SYSTEM$GET_PRIVATELINK_CONFIG output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The output from SYSTEM$GET_PRIVATELINK_CONFIG:
```

  - Include the privatelink-pls-id
- dbt Cloud Azure multi-tenant environment: 
```

> 3. dbt will provide the `private endpoint resource_id` of our `private_endpoint` and the `CIDR` range for you to complete the [Snowflake configuration](https://community.snowflake.com/s/article/HowtosetupPrivatelinktoSnowflakefromCloudServiceVendors) by contacting their support team. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. dbt Support will provide the `private endpoint resource_id` of our `private_endpoint` and the `CIDR` range for you to complete the [PrivateLink configuration](https://community.snowflake.com/s/article/HowtosetupPrivatelinktoSnowflakefromCloudServiceVendors) by contacting the Snowflake Support team. 
```

4. Configure the remaining data platform details.
5. Test your connection and save it.

## Enable the connection in Snowflake

To complete the setup, follow the remaining steps from the Snowflake setup guides. The instructions vary based on the platform:

- [Snowflake AWS PrivateLink](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/admin-security-privatelink)
- [Snowflake Azure Private Link](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/privatelink-azure)

> There are some nuances for each connection, but in each case you will need a Snowflake administrator. As the Snowflake administrator, call the `SYSTEM$AUTHORIZE_STAGE_PRIVATELINK_ACCESS` function using the privateEndpointResourceID value as the function argument. This step authorizes access to the Snowflake internal stage through the Private Endpoint. 

Author: ```suggestion
There are some nuances for each connection, but in each case, you will need a Snowflake administrator. As the Snowflake administrator, call the `SYSTEM$AUTHORIZE_STAGE_PRIVATELINK_ACCESS` function using the privateEndpointResourceID value as the function argument. This step authorizes access to the Snowflake internal stage through the private endpoint. 
```

> There are some nuances for each connection, but in each case, you will need a Snowflake administrator. As the Snowflake administrator, call the `SYSTEM$AUTHORIZE_STAGE_PRIVATELINK_ACCESS` function using the privateEndpointResourceID value as the function argument. This step authorizes access to the Snowflake internal stage through the private endpoint. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are some nuances for each connection and you will need a Snowflake administrator. As the Snowflake administrator, call the `SYSTEM$AUTHORIZE_STAGE_PRIVATELINK_ACCESS` function using the privateEndpointResourceID value as the function argument. This authorizes access to the Snowflake internal stage through the private endpoint. 
```

4. Configure the remaining data platform details.
5. Test your connection and save it.

## Enable the connection in Snowflake

To complete the setup, follow the remaining steps from the Snowflake setup guides. The instructions vary based on the platform:

- [Snowflake AWS PrivateLink](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/admin-security-privatelink)
- [Snowflake Azure Private Link](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/privatelink-azure)

There are some nuances for each connection and you will need a Snowflake administrator. As the Snowflake administrator, call the `SYSTEM$AUTHORIZE_STAGE_PRIVATELINK_ACCESS` function using the privateEndpointResourceID value as the function argument. This authorizes access to the Snowflake internal stage through the private endpoint. 

```sql

USE ROLE ACCOUNTADMIN;

-- AWS PrivateLink
SELECT SYSTEMS$AUTHORIZE_STATE_PRIVATELINK_ACCESS ( `AWS VPC ID` );

-- Azure Private Link

> SELECT SYSTEMS$AUTHORIZE_STATE_PRIVATELINK_ACCESS ( `AZURE PRIVATED ENDPOINT RESOURCE ID` );

Author: ```suggestion
SELECT SYSTEMS$AUTHORIZE_STATE_PRIVATELINK_ACCESS ( `AZURE PRIVATE ENDPOINT RESOURCE ID` );
```
